# CIS1250-test-Niko
test repository for CIS1250





    Writing Assignment 4

Communication is crucial for effective software design as it is used throughout the entire development cycle of the software. To start off, there must be effective communication with the shareholder in order to tailor the software to their needs, additionally, communication among developers is important in order to deliver the shareholders needs arcuately as well as in a timely manner. The absence of effective communication can have severe consequences including making a software that the shareholder doesn't want or the project development having serious delays. 3 elements in effective communication are learning to listen, being open and empathetic as well as being mindful and paying attention. Applying these elements of effective communication will allow you to have a greater understanding of what is being discussed with you allowing you to give the best response that you can. Being able to understand the person you are communicating with will help resolve a multitude of problems before they happen that stem from misunderstandings that could otherwise result in conflict. A personal story of a miscommunication that I had was regarding a group assignment that I had in highschool. I was in a group with 2 people that I didn't know and we were all on the shyer side. Because of this we didn't communicate much between us but rather just briefly divided the work between us. Coming to the due date, me and one of my group members accidentally did the same section leaving a third of the project unfinished. This led to a conflict within my group and us scrambling to finish the other part of the project in time ultimately not doing that well on the project. If I could relive this experience, I would certainly put much more enfances on communicating effectively at the start of the project. The requirements phase in software development, I should have prioritized the initial communication making sure I had a clear understanding of what I needed to do. Additionally, I should have applied some of the communication elements such as being mindful and paying attention. If I had paid closer attention and had been more mindful towards my group members the conflict would have been avoided entirely


    writing assignemnt 5

  One of the most important design principles is principle number 5 which is “Sustainable development, able to maintain a constant pace”. To me, this is referring to laying out the workload across a fair amount of time instead of compiling it all at once. The reason that this is so important is because compiling all of the workload at once can lead to severe stress or becoming majorly burnt out. This is important in software design as completing a project in a timely manner for the client is very important. Not planning the workload out well or rushing it all at once will lead to a more stressful team environment and ultimately a poorer product. This design principle is important for more than just software development though, an example of where I regret not applying this principle was when I was studying for my discrete structures midterm. I had poorly managed my time leading up to mid term and I cramped many, many hours in a matter of 2 days prior to the exam. The aftermath led to me being severely burned out the coming week of the class resulting in my grade slipping. Another example of why this principle is so important is in the development of a videogame. The player base for a videogame will replay the games contents over and over but eventually will grow bored. Creating a constant stream of new content for them is crucial for the survival of the game. This is why it is important for video game developers to pace themselves so that they can deliver regular content updates without crashing out or underdelivering for the user, enhancing their user experience
